# heartbreakor


### How does your algorithm work?

My algorithm first chooses the subject of the story (she, him, you, they) randomly from a list and fetches the lyrics of two songs "All Out of Love" by Air Supply and "Lovin' you" by Minnie Ripperton. I chose these two songs as one is a song for heartbreak and the other a song for being madly in love. Then, I decide whether the story should be about heartbreak or being in love using a boolean variable called `heartbreak`. If the subject is about a heartbreak, the algorithm completely changes the meaning of the song "Lovin' you" by replacing a few words such as "easy" into "hard" etc. Furthermore, the algorithm would change the subjects of the two songs into the `chosen_pronoun` so as to stay consistent. If the subject is not about heartbreak, the algorithm changes the meaning of the song "All Out of Love" by replacing words such as "out of" to change the tone of the song. Plus, the connecting sentences would be changing depending on the boolean variable due to the fact that they are generated by scraping the synonyms of words such as "happy" and "sad". The algorithm achieves these things through the thorough usage of the python `str.replace()` method. After tweaking the song lyrics and remixing them together, depending on the `heartbreak` variable, I fetched some news articles about the physical sensations of being in love and being heartbroken. After fetching the lyrics, I tweaked the subject to stay consistent with the narration, and mixed all of the elements together. 

The final text is then displayed on a webpage `leregdos.github.io/heartbreakor`. The viewer can see the other side of the story by clicking on the `or` button at the footer of the page. 

### Why did you choose this content and algorithm?

Initially, I had issues with this assignment as I was so lost. I did not know where to begin and how to start. However, as I was listening to "All Out Of Love" by Air Supply, I noticed how I used to listen to this song in times of both heartbreak and being in love. That made me ponder about the duality of love. I was intrigued by how much similarities the two states of being have, but at the same time being drastically different. In this assignment, I wanted to explore that duality by assembling together some love song lyrics and news articles. Also, I wanted to creatively narrate how my assemblage was presented. For this reason, I used this algorithm to generate this sort of text.  

### How does the final output differ from what a person would write?

Surprisingly enough, perhaps due to my extensive usage of the `replace` method to fix some grammatical outliers, the final output could pass as being a human generated text. Even then, some parts of the text seems odd due to the word usage, especially the parts where the algorithm generate sentences based on synonyms. The sentences would contain words that are scarcely used in the context. 

Aside from this, as I ventured to tell a story that explores the similarities and differences of being heartbroken and being in love, the code serves the purpose. 

### What thoughts or feelings does your output provoke?

The heartbreak part of the generated story, to me, successfully conveys the emotions that we feel when we are heartbroken. The song lyrics and other added texts, when assembled, accomplish this. 

The same goes for the or? part of the narration. Reading it reminded me of being in love. 
